## Motivation

Autonomous driving systems require huge amounts of data to train. Manual annotation of this data is timeconsuming and prohibitively expensive since it involves human resources. The authors introduce a synthetic dataset, called **SYNTHIA, The SYNTHetic collection of Imagery and Annotations**, specially designed to evaluate active learning for object detection in road scenes. The aim is having an unbalanced foreground/background distribution, simulating the real collection scenario of a driving car.

## Dataset description

The data was generated by driving a car in a virtual world consisting of three different areas, namely town, city, and highway. These areas are populated with a variety of pedestrians, cars, cyclists, and wheelchairs, except for the highway which is limited to cars. These dynamic objects were arbitrarily spawned at predefined positions with a given probability and followed randomly predefined paths without leaving each area. The authors used several environmental conditions: season (winter, fall, spring), day time (day or night), and weather (clear or rainy). By default, they always used spring and clear during the day, and only changed one condition at a time. Objects with no lights can be hard to visualize during the night, so the authors only used cars for the night condition.

## Dataset features

- **XLarge Volume of Data & Groundtruth:**

  - +200,000 HD images from video streams
  - +20,000 HD images from independent snapshots

- **Scene Diversity:**

  - European style town
  - Modern city
  - Highway
  - Green areas

- **Variety of Dynamic Objects:**

  - Cars
  - Pedestrians
  - Cyclists

- **Multiple Seasons:**

  - Dedicated themes for Winter, Fall, Spring, and Summer

- **Lighting Conditions and Weather:**

  - Dynamic lights and shadows
  - Several day-time modes
  - Rain mode
  - Night mode

- **Sensor Simulation:**

  - 8 RGB cameras forming a binocular 360ยบ camera
  - 8 depth sensors

- **Automatic Groundtruth:**
  - Individual instances for:
    - Semantic segmentation (pixelwise annotations)
    - Depth
    - Car ego-motion
